# MINGUS - Melodic Improvisation Neural Generator Using Seq2seq

##### Authors: Vincenzo Madaghiele, Pasquale Lisena, Raphaël Troncy

Sequence to Sequence (Seq2Seq) approaches have shown good performances in automatic music generation. We introduce MINGUS, a Transformer-based Seq2Seq architecture for modelling and generating monophonic jazz melodic lines.
MINGUS relies on two dedicated embedding models (respectively for pitch and duration) and exploits in prediction features such as chords (current and following), bass line, position inside the measure. The obtained results are comparable with the state of the art, with particularly good performances on jazz music.

## Install dependencies
The dependencies to run this code are listed in the requirement.txt file. 
After downloading this repository, run the following code in the terminal to install the dependencies in a new conda environment named MINGUS and activate it:
```
$ conda create --name MINGUS --file requirements.txt
$ conda activate MINGUS
```
It will probably be necessary to run the following command to make the code work:
```
$ export PYTHONPATH="$PWD"
```
To use the model run the following code from the main project directory.
## Pre-process data
Place your musicXML data in 00_preprocessData/data/xml.
```
$ python3 A_preprocessData/data_preprocessing.py --format xml
```
This will generate the file 00_preprocessData/data/DATA.json which will be used for training.

## Train MINGUS
To train MINGUS with your dataset run:
```
$ python3 B_train/train.py 
```
The saved model will be in B_train/models. It is possible to visualize training details with tensorboard by running:
```
$ tensorboard --logdir=B_train/runs
```
The results are showed in your browser at http://localhost:6006/.

## Generate music
To generate music with MINGUS you can run the following command. Please ensure that the arguments correspond to an already trained model. 
```
$ python3 C_generate/generate.py 
```
Output midi files will be in C_generate/generated_tunes.

## Evaluate results
The evaluation metrics are computed by comparing the melodies generated by MINGUS and a corpus of generated samples, so to evaluate the model you should first choose some reference xml files and put them in D_eval/reference. Then you should generate a corpus of melodies with MINGUS and evaluate the results:
```
$ python3 C_generate/generate.py --GENERATE_CORPUS
$ python3 D_evaluate/evaluate.py 
```
The evaluation metrics are available in D_evaluate/metrics.
